#summary Getting Started with ScalaEdit
#labels Deprecated

= Introduction =

ScalaEdit is an easy to use text editor with built-in Scala and sbt terminals. The sbt (simple build tool) terminal turns ScalaEdit into a powerful development environment for Scala projects. This guide describes how to get started with an sbt project in ScalaEdit. There are a lot of configuration options for sbt that are not covered here. Please see [https://github.com/harrah/xsbt/wiki sbt hompage] for more info.

= Step by Step =

If you have not done that already you need to download and start ScalaEdit to follow this guide. See description on the [http://code.google.com/p/scala-edit front page].

  # Select an empty directory where you want to store your project 
files with the menu item "Project->Change Root..." 
  # If it is not already done you can make the file list to the left 
autorefresh by selecting "Project->Auto Refresh" 
  # Start an sbt terminal with "Terminal->SBT Terminal->Version 0.11" 
  # Sbt will now initialize a project folder in the folder you have 
selected. The target directory will contain the compiled classes. 
  # Use "File->New" to start editing the first file. 
  # Save the file (by pressing the save button or Control-s) as 
"HeloWorld.scala" in the default directory. 
  # Paste in the following content to the file: 
    <code language="scala">object HelloWorld{ 
      def main(args:Array[String]){ 
        println("Hello World") 
      } 
    }</code>
  # Save the file 
  # Run the HelloWorld program by pressing the run button in the sbt 
terminal. If it works you will see Hello World printed out to the 
terminal. 